---
layout: post
title: 'Setting Cue Points in DJ Software automatically using keyboard shortcuts'
date: "Oct 13, 2024"
description: A discussion post about the discovery process and implementation of figuring out how to set cue points automatically in Serato DJ software.
tags: [Open Source, Automation, Keyboard Shortcuts, DJ Software]
author: Miguel Jones
---

## The beginnings of the idea

  I came up with the idea to try and automate cue point setting in DJ software in Summer 2024. Normally to set cue points (The markers DJ's use to jump to specific points in time on the tracks that they are using)
you have to either scroll or beat jump to the specific places that you want to set cue points at. This is alright to do if you only have 10-20 tracks, but becomes tedious if you have say 100's of tracks to set cue points for.

## Some Inspiration

I found a GitHub repository that had achieved auto setting cue points by Bide-UK linked [here](https://github.com/Bide-UK/Bides-Rekordbox-AutoCuer/tree/master). It was a great program using Apple Scripts to automatically set cue points in RekordboxDJ software.
The problem was that I had a Windows laptop and I used SeratoDJ (A different DJ software) so Bide's code would not work for me right out of the box.
So I decided to tweak his existing code and add modifications that would allow me replicate his results on my machine for the software that I was using.

## The Execution

The main portions of his code that I had to change were as follows:

1. I couldn't use Apple Scripts on my Windows machine so I made the switch to Python to use pyautogui to direct the keyboard shortcuts.
2. RekordBox and Serato have different keyboard shortcuts and some different ways of loading, analyzing, and preparing beatgrids for songs.
3. I also wanted to change the places where the program would automatically set the cue points.

I was able to complete this and the program works fairly well. It isn't a finished product and is rough around the edges in some areas, but I was able to get a working program to solve a problem that I was facing which is always a good thing.

## Closing

It was really fun and challenging trying to tweak and tinker the existing codebase to be able to put together this program. Thank you to Bide-UK whose GitHUb is [here](https://github.com/Bide-UK)
because I would have had to work from scratch and do a bunch more research to develop this program if his repository didn't exist.


